API.md, before:

# API Websocket

This websocket provides unlimited access to many functions of the site, it is used for Discord Chat Bridge and similar stuff.

Websocket url:
`https://[dev.]pixelplanet.fun/mcws`

Connection just possible with header:

```
Authorization: "Bearer APISOCKETKEY"
```

All requests are made as JSON encoded array.

### Subscribe to chat messages

send

```["sub", "chat"]```

All chat messages, except the once you send with `chat` or `mcchat`, will be sent to you in the form:

```["msg", name, message, id, country, channelId]```
channelId is an integer, channel 0 is `en` channel 1 is `int` and maybe more to come.
id is the user id
country is the [two-letter country code](https://www.nationsonline.org/oneworld/country_code_list.htm) in lowercase

### Subscribe to online user counter

send

```["sub", "online"]```

Online counter will be sent to you all 10s as typical binary package (see `src/socket/packets/OnlineCounter.js`)

### Subscribe to pixel packages

send

```["sub", "pxl"]```

All pixels (including your own) will be sent to you as typical binary packages

### Set Pixel

```[ "setpxl", minecraftid, ip, x, y, clr ]```

(x, y, clr are integers, rest strings)

Sets a pixel with the according cooldown to minecraftid, ip. Minecraftid is optional, but ip is required if it is given. If both minecraftid and ip are null/None, the pixel will get set without cooldown check. No race condition checks are performed.

You will get a reply with:

```["retpxl", id, error, success, waitSeconds, coolDownSeconds]```

(id and error as strings, success as boolean, waitSeconds and coolDownSeconds as float)

ID is minecraftid, if given, else ip. 
error is a message on error, else null.
success... self explanatory 
waitSeconds is the current cooldown. 
coolDownSeconds is the added cooldown (negative if pixel couldn't be set because max cooldown got reached)

### Send Chat Message

```["chat", name, message, country, channelId]```

channelId is an integer, channel 0 is `en` channel 1 is `int` and maybe more to come.
(messages with the name "info" will be displayed as red notifications in the chat window)

Commit message:

only send messages from public channels to APIWebSocket send reply with public channels and their ids if APIWebSocket subs to chat add getflag apisocket request add yy flag for matrix

API.md, after:

# API Websocket

This websocket provides unlimited access to many functions of the site, it is used for Discord Chat Bridge and similar stuff.

Websocket url:
`https://[dev.]pixelplanet.fun/mcws`

Connection just possible with header:

```
Authorization: "Bearer APISOCKETKEY"
```

All requests are made as JSON encoded array.

### Subscribe to chat messages

send

```["sub", "chat"]```

you get a reply with the list of public channels you are now receiving messages of 

```["chans", [id1, name1], [id2, name2], ...]```

All chat messages, except the once you send with `chat` or `mcchat`, will be sent to you in the form:

```["msg", name, uid, message, country, channelId]```
channelId is an integer, channel 0 is `en` channel 1 is `int` and maybe more to come.
id is the user id
country is the [two-letter country code](https://www.nationsonline.org/oneworld/country_code_list.htm) in lowercase

### Subscribe to online user counter

send

```["sub", "online"]```

Online counter will be sent to you all 10s as typical binary package (see `src/socket/packets/OnlineCounter.js`)

### Subscribe to pixel packages

send

```["sub", "pxl"]```

All pixels (including your own) will be sent to you as typical binary packages

### Get flag of User

send

```['getflag', userId]```

receive

```['flag', userId, flag]``

Flag is in lowercase two-letter country code and null if user doesn't exist or had no flag set yet

### Set Pixel

```[ "setpxl", minecraftid, ip, x, y, clr ]```

(x, y, clr are integers, rest strings)

Sets a pixel with the according cooldown to minecraftid, ip. Minecraftid is optional, but ip is required if it is given. If both minecraftid and ip are null/None, the pixel will get set without cooldown check. No race condition checks are performed.

You will get a reply with:

```["retpxl", id, error, success, waitSeconds, coolDownSeconds]```

(id and error as strings, success as boolean, waitSeconds and coolDownSeconds as float)

ID is minecraftid, if given, else ip. 
error is a message on error, else null.
success... self explanatory 
waitSeconds is the current cooldown. 
coolDownSeconds is the added cooldown (negative if pixel couldn't be set because max cooldown got reached)

### Send Chat Message

```["chat", name, userId, message, country, channelId]```

channelId is an integer, channel 0 is `en` channel 1 is `int` and maybe more to come.
(messages with the name "info" will be displayed as red notifications in the chat window)
