utils/README.md, before:

# Utils for map creation, conversion, 3d models and related stuff
Note:
- we use blender 2.8
- js script are executed with babel-node

## sphere-protection.blend
This blend file includes the sphere we use to display the globe with two UV maps, one for protection like it's used on many globe textures of the earth like [here](http://blog.mastermaps.com/2013/09/creating-webgl-earth-with-threejs.html) and [here](http://www.shadedrelief.com/natural3/pages/textures.html) and one for our mercator projection that is the same as on OpenStreetMap, with additional changes for poles.
The shader nodes in the bumpmap material are setup so that they bake from one uv map to another.

If you want to generate the .glb model file for the site thats in public/globe/globe.glb:
1. delete all materials of the sphere
2. delete the "fake-mercator" uv map, so that just the mercator one is left
3. create a new one without textures
4. name the material "canvas" (this will then be set by the script to the canvas textures)
5. select the sphere and export as .glb

## ocean-tiles
Used to generate tiles based on a uv texture that can then be drawn on the canvas, like the oceans and continents.

## country-locations
Generates a json list of country codes and their coordinates on the canvas based on lat and lon

## redis-convert.js
Script to convert redis canvas database to different color / different layout

## redis-copy.js
Script to copy a canvas from one redis to another, with different keys if neccessary

## sql-commandtest.js
Script that connects to the mysql database and does some stuff, just for testing

## proxyConvert.sh
Converts a proxy list in specific txt format to a better readable list

## imageClean.py
python3 script that takes an input image and cleares spare pixels and bot remains

## areaDownload.py
downloads an area of the canvas into a png file.
Usage: `areaDownload.py startX_startY endX_endY filename.png`
(note that you can copy the current coordinates in this format on the site by pressing R)

## historyDownload.py
downloads the history from an canvas area between two dates.
Useage: `historyDownload.py canvasId startX_startY endX_endY start_date end_date
This is used for creating timelapses, see the cmd help to know how

## liveLog.sh
shell script that watches the pixel.log file and outputs the stats of the current IPs placing there
Usage: `./liveLog.sh LOGFILE CANVASID STARTX_STARTY ENDX_ENDY`

## pp-center\*.png
center logo of pixelplanet

## change-canvasbackup
just a script that got run once to add the missing tiles in historical view when  increasing the size of the moon canvas.

## uploadImage.js
nodejs script to upload a Image to the canvas without checks and without caring about what was previously there, don't use it for anything other than initially loading a very large image to the canvas.

Commit message:

Set pixels in redis in batches finish node-redis update by making sure that everything that needs redis runs after redis connected

utils/README.md, after:

# Utils for map creation, conversion, 3d models and related stuff

Note:

- EVERY SCRIPT THAT USES REDIS IS JUST AS REFERENCE (node-redis and keys update and change over time and i am not keeping those up-to-date) 
- we use blender 2.8
- js script are executed with babel-node

## sphere-protection.blend
This blend file includes the sphere we use to display the globe with two UV maps, one for protection like it's used on many globe textures of the earth like [here](http://blog.mastermaps.com/2013/09/creating-webgl-earth-with-threejs.html) and [here](http://www.shadedrelief.com/natural3/pages/textures.html) and one for our mercator projection that is the same as on OpenStreetMap, with additional changes for poles.
The shader nodes in the bumpmap material are setup so that they bake from one uv map to another.

If you want to generate the .glb model file for the site thats in public/globe/globe.glb:
1. delete all materials of the sphere
2. delete the "fake-mercator" uv map, so that just the mercator one is left
3. create a new one without textures
4. name the material "canvas" (this will then be set by the script to the canvas textures)
5. select the sphere and export as .glb

## ocean-tiles
Used to generate tiles based on a uv texture that can then be drawn on the canvas, like the oceans and continents.

## country-locations
Generates a json list of country codes and their coordinates on the canvas based on lat and lon

## redis-convert.js
Script to convert redis canvas database to different color / different layout

## redis-copy.js
Script to copy a canvas from one redis to another, with different keys if neccessary

## sql-commandtest.js
Script that connects to the mysql database and does some stuff, just for testing

## proxyConvert.sh
Converts a proxy list in specific txt format to a better readable list

## imageClean.py
python3 script that takes an input image and cleares spare pixels and bot remains

## areaDownload.py
downloads an area of the canvas into a png file.
Usage: `areaDownload.py startX_startY endX_endY filename.png`
(note that you can copy the current coordinates in this format on the site by pressing R)

## historyDownload.py
downloads the history from an canvas area between two dates.
Useage: `historyDownload.py canvasId startX_startY endX_endY start_date end_date
This is used for creating timelapses, see the cmd help to know how

## liveLog.sh
shell script that watches the pixel.log file and outputs the stats of the current IPs placing there
Usage: `./liveLog.sh LOGFILE CANVASID STARTX_STARTY ENDX_ENDY`

## pp-center\*.png
center logo of pixelplanet

## change-canvasbackup
just a script that got run once to add the missing tiles in historical view when  increasing the size of the moon canvas.

## uploadImage.js
nodejs script to upload a Image to the canvas without checks and without caring about what was previously there, don't use it for anything other than initially loading a very large image to the canvas.
